---
Launch School: RB101-RB109 - Small Problems - Easy 4
ExerciseName: [Convert a String to a Number!](https://launchschool.com/exercises/192719a5)
FileName: x07.md
Created On: 02/19/2021
---

# PEDAC

## Process the Problem
  The String#to_i method converts a string of numeric characters (including an
  optional plus or minus sign) to an Integer. String#to_i and the Integer constructor 
  (Integer()) behave similarly. In this exercise, you will create a method that 
  does the same thing.

  Write a method that takes a String of digits, and returns the appropriate 
  number as an integer. You may not use any of the methods mentioned above.

  For now, do not worry about leading + or - signs, nor should you worry about 
  invalid characters; assume all characters will be numeric.

  You may not use any of the standard conversion methods available in Ruby, 
  such as String#to_i, Integer(), etc. Your method should do this the 
  old-fashioned way and calculate the result by analyzing the characters in 
  the string.
=end

Problem:
  Input: String
  Output: Integer representation of that string
  RulesRequirements:
    Implicit:
    Explicit:
      - create method that takes String param
      - param will be string representation of integer
      - not allowed to use to_i nor Integer()
      - do not worry about sign (+ or -)
      - no invalid characters will be given
    EdgeCase:
  MentalModel:
      - create a method that accepts a string of chars that 
        convert them over to their integer representation.
          
Example: see below
        
DataStructure:
      - String, Hash, Array
        
Algorithm:
    - create method with String parameter
    - create hash consisting of string of integers as keys
      and integers as values
    - convert string to array and assign the reverse value of
      array to local `arr`
    - iterate through array using map for transformation and 
      if hash key equals array value then within block:
        - multiply each element by 10**n where n represents an 
          exponent that increases by 1 on each iteration.
    - sum return value of map iteration       
Code: