---
Launch School Book: Ruby Basics - Exercises
ExerciseName: [Print Something (Part 2)](https://launchschool.com/exercises/3dbafdd6)
FileName: ex04.md
Answered On: 06/11/2020
---

# Print Something (Part 2)

In the previous exercise, you wrote a program that asks the user if they want 
the program to print "something". However, this program recognized any input as 
valid: if you answered anything but y, it treated it as an n response, and quit 
without printing anything.

Modify your program so it prints an error message for any inputs that aren't y or n, 
and then asks you to try again. Keep asking for a response until you receive a 
valid y or n response. In addition, your program should allow both Y and N 
(uppercase) responses; case sensitive input is generally a poor user interface 
choice. Whenever possible, accept both uppercase and lowercase inputs.

Examples:
```ruby
$ ruby something2.rb
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
y
something

$ ruby something2.rb
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
help
>> Invalid input! Please enter y or n
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
Y
something

$ ruby something2.rb
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
N

$ ruby something2.rb
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
NO
>> Invalid input! Please enter y or n
>> Do you want me to print something? (y/n)
n
```

My Solution:
```ruby
loop do
  puts ">> Do you want this program to print something? Enter y or n"
  user_input = gets.chomp.downcase
  
  if user_input == 'y'
    puts "something"
    break
  elsif user_input == 'n'
    break
  else 
    puts ">> Invalid input! Please enter y or n"
  end
end
```

Explanation: 
We move the Questions and response inside a loop to ensure the question is asked
each time the loop runs.  This will prevent infinite loop when the anwwer does not
match the desired response options (y/n).  An if statemetn is added with break
statements for (y/n) responses.  Otherwise a message is displayed to the user and
the loop runs again.

Note: See Launch School solution by following the exercise link below 
as it provides for a great response.

Key Points:
1. Use downcase to help match user response to necessary criteria.
2. Use if statement to check if user input matches desired result.
3. Remmeber to put the question and response inside the loop otherwise you 
may end up with infinite loop.

Resources:
1. [Print Something (Part 2)](https://launchschool.com/exercises/3dbafdd6)
2. [String#downcase](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.5.0/String.html#method-i-downcase)