=begin
Launch School: RB101-RB109 - Small Problems - Easy 8
ExerciseName: [Palindromic Substrings](https://launchschool.com/exercises/93efd352)
FileName: x05.rb
Answered On: 11/05/2020
=end

=begin
  Write a method that returns a list of all substrings of a string that are 
  palindromic. That is, each substring must consist of the same sequence of 
  characters forwards as it does backwards. The return value should be arranged 
  in the same sequence as the substrings appear in the string. Duplicate 
  palindromes should be included multiple times.

  You may (and should) use the substrings method you wrote in the previous 
  exercise.
  
  For the purposes of this exercise, you should consider all characters and pay 
  attention to case; that is, "AbcbA" is a palindrome, but neither 
  "Abcba" nor "Abc-bA" are. In addition, assume that single characters are not 
  palindromes.
=end

=begin
-----------------------INSTRUCTIONS------------------------------------

--------------------------PROBLEM--------------------------------------

Questions:

Input: String

Output: Array

---------------------------RULES---------------------------------------
Explicit: 
  - Given String return array of palindromic substrings
  - palindrome is a string that when reversed reads the same characters forwards and backwards.
  - substring is current letter plus all characters that follow
  - order should be preserved to how they appear in original string
  - include duplicate palindromes
  - use methods from previous exercises.
  - case sensitive
  - exclude single char substrings
  - include all characters

Implicit: 

EdgeCases:


--------------------------ALGORITHM------------------------------------
given string, parse into substrings and check if it is a palindrome, return 
array of palindrome substrings.


--------------------------EXAMPLES-------------------------------------



--------------------------PSEUDO CODE----------------------------------
+ create method with 1 string param
+ initialize empty results array
- parse string param into individual substrings built by
- take current char plus each char that follow, 
  - save as substring as you add one character at a time
  - repeat process for each current_element
  - push into results array
  - finally iterate through results array and select the 
    ones that read the same backwards and forwards

PEDACT @ 6:30 + 3 = 9:30 minutes total
=end

Additional Solution 03/30/2021
def substrings(str)
  results = []
    0.upto(str.size - 1) do |idx|
      results << str[0..idx]
    end
  results
end
def leading_substrings(str)
  results = []
  0.upto(str.size - 1) do |idx|
    results << substrings(str[idx..-1])
  end
  
  results
end
def palindromes(str)
  subr = leading_substrings(str)
  subr.flatten.select do |sub|
    sub if sub == sub.reverse && sub.length > 1
  end
end

# Additional Solution 03/30/2021
# better as iterator is automatic (str.size - 1) is non-issue
def substrings(str)
    str.chars.map.with_index do |_,idx|
      str[0..idx]
    end
end
def leading_substrings(str)
  str.chars.map.with_index do |_,idx|
    substrings(str[idx..-1])
  end
end
def palindromes(str)
  subr = leading_substrings(str)
  subr.flatten.select do |sub|
    sub if sub == sub.reverse && sub.length > 1
  end
end